# REVERSE
This is the README document for REVERSE, a one stop-solution for analyzing next generation sequencing data from in vitro selection/evolution experiments. The REVERSE pipeline is extremely intuitive and provides the most sought-after results in minutes. No programming knowledge required.                             


# Usage
The REVERSE pipeline allows users to rapidly identify, cluster, and analyze nucleic acid sequences from large (and sometimes difficult to interpret for the uninitiated) sequencing files to generate usable results with a few clicks. REVERSE takes as input multiple FASTQ files from high-throughput sequencing (HTS) data obtained from different rounds of in vitro selection/evolution experiments. As an alternative to experimentalists spending time on laborious computer programming analyses to identify functional sequences to be used for downstream characterization, REVERSE identifies the most abundant sequences/sequence families, graphically compares and tracks the emergence of each selected sequence across various rounds of selection, and enables their nucleotide level analysis in a matter of minutes. REVERSE also generates publication quality figures wherever relevant. Although REVERSE is developed for analyzing HTS data from nucleic acid selection/evolution experiments, it can be used to analyze data generated by other sequencing experiments. For example, REVERSE can be used to identify conserved and variable residues in viral genomes.

# Availability
REVERSE is freely available at https://www.reverseserver.org/ and does not have a login requirement. The code for REVERSE is open source and available in the GitHub repository (https://github.com/szostaklab/REVERSE).

# Attributions
Zoe Weiss and Saurja DasGupta designed and created REVERSE. We thank Dr. Daniel Duzdevich for helpful comments on this project and thank Dr. Jack Szostak for valuable suggestions throughout this project, critical reading of the manuscript, and funding.

# Suggestions
If you have any feedback or would like to beta test REVERSE, please contact us at zweiss@mgh.harvard.edu or dasgupta@molbio.mgh.harvard.edu. If you are reporting a bug, please include the full error message recieved when running REVERSE.
